Create risk_analysis.md (#304)
DXHeroes/knowledge-base-content: practices/risk_analysis.md

---
slug: risk-analysis
stages:
  - development
short_description: Risk Analysis and Management is a key project management practice to ensure that the least number of surprises occur while the project is underway
tags:
  - risk analysis
  - software documentation
keywords:
  - risk analysis
  - documentation
  - task
---

# Risk Analysis

**TL;DR**

Risk analysis is the process of identifying and analyzing potential issues that could negatively impact key business initiatives or projects. This process is done in order to help organizations avoid or mitigate those risks.

## What Is Risk Analysis

Risk analysis is the process of analyzing, determining, and defining the risk of danger to government agencies, and businesses. We also use it to determine risk to individuals, towns, cities, and whole national economies.

Specifically, the analysis looks at potential natural and anthropogenic events. Anthropogenic events are events that human activity causes.

In IT, we commonly use a risk analysis report to align technological goals with those of the company. IT stands for information technology. Risk analysis is both quantitative or qualitative.

> ![Process](/files/risk_analysis.jpg)

Reviewer: Please, add the source to your image.

Author: done

## Why You Might Want the Risk Analysis

> 1. If you complete preventative risk analysis you can potentially avoid making huge losses

Reviewer: Please, give this part a second look. It seems too similar to headings from https://www.spews.org/marketing/why-risk-analysis-is-important/

Author: done

2. Risk analysis will help your business avoid security breaches
3. If you fail to plan for future success, you plan to fail
4. You’ll be able to draft up new policies to prevent potential risks from eventuating
5. By performing risk analysis you may be able to increase your business’ profits

## How to Implement the Risk Analysis
**1. Identify Threats**

The first step in Risk Analysis is to identify the existing and possible threats that you might face. These can come from many different sources. For instance, they could be:

> - Human – Illness, death, injury, or other loss of a key individual.

Reviewer: Please, rewrite this part with your own words. I tried to find which source is the closes to these points and it seems like either https://www.archtonica.com/projects-risk-analysis/ or http://globalplanninggroup.com/support/risk-analysis/how-to-use-ra/.

Reviewer: The part in consideration is 
_Human – Illness, death, injury, or other loss of a key individual.
Operational – Disruption to supplies and operations, loss of access to essential assets, or failures in distribution.
Reputational – Loss of customer or employee confidence, or damage to market reputation.
Procedural – Failures of accountability, internal systems, or controls, or from fraud.
Project – Going over budget, taking too long on key tasks, or experiencing issues with product or service quality.
Financial – Business failure, stock market fluctuations, interest rate changes, or non-availability of funding.
Technical – Advances in technology, or from technical failure.
Natural – Weather, natural disasters, or disease.
Political – Changes in tax, public opinion, government policy, or foreign influence.
Structural – Dangerous chemicals, poor lighting, falling boxes, or any situation where staff, products, or technology can be harmed._

Author: done

Reviewer: The fact that you change the order is not rewriting.

- Operational – Disruption to supplies and operations, loss of access to essential assets, or failures in distribution.
- Reputational – Loss of customer or employee confidence, or damage to market reputation.
- Procedural – Failures of accountability, internal systems, or controls, or from fraud.
- Project – Going over budget, taking too long on key tasks, or experiencing issues with product or service quality.
- Financial – Business failure, stock market fluctuations, interest rate changes, or non-availability of funding.
- Technical – Advances in technology, or from technical failure.
- Natural – Weather, natural disasters, or disease.
- Political – Changes in tax, public opinion, government policy, or foreign influence.

> Tools such as **SWOT Analysis** ,**Failure Mode** and **Effects Analysis** can also help you uncover threats, while **Scenario Analysis** helps you explore possible future threats.

Reviewer: Please, rewrite this in your own words. it has certain similarities with _ Tools such as a SWOT Analysis (Harvard Model), an FMEA, can also help you uncover threats, while a Scenario Analysis helps you explore possible future threats._ from  https://www.archtonica.com/projects-risk-analysis/

> **2. Estimate Risk**

Reviewer: Please, rewrite this part in your own words, it seems that there is heavy connection with _2. Estimate Risk_

_Once you’ve identified the threats you’re facing, you need to calculate out both the likelihood of these threats being realized, and their possible impact._

_One way of doing this is to make your best estimate of the probability of the event occurring, and then to multiply this by the amount it will cost you to set things right if it happens. This gives you a value for the risk:_
_Risk Value = Probability of Event x Cost of Event_

Author: done

Once you've identified the threats you're facing, you need to calculate out both the likelihood of these threats being realized, and their possible impact.One way of doing this is to make your best estimate of the probability of the event occurring, and then to multiply this by the amount it will cost you to set things right if it happens. This gives you a value for the risk:

```
Risk Value = Probability of Event x Cost of Event
```

## Common Pitfalls of the Risk Analysis

> - Evaluations are subjective.

Reviewer: I like that you searched for study (https://study.com/academy/lesson/qualitative-risk-analysis-benefits-limitations.html) on Pitfalls. Please, give this a revisit, it has too many similar words with the source.

Author: done

---
slug: risk-analysis
stages:
  - development
short_description: Risk Analysis and Management is a key project management practice to ensure that the least number of surprises occur while the project is underway
tags:
  - risk analysis
  - software documentation
keywords:
  - risk analysis
  - documentation
  - task
---

# Risk Analysis

**TL;DR**

> Risk analysis is the process of identifying and analyzing potential issues that could negatively impact key business initiatives or projects. This process is done in order to help organizations avoid or mitigate those risks.

Reviewer: _Risk analysis is the process of identifying and analyzing potential issues that could negatively impact key business initiatives or projects. This process is done in order to help organizations avoid or mitigate those risks._ from https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/risk-analysis

## What Is Risk Analysis

> Risk analysis is the process of analyzing, determining, and defining the risk of danger to government agencies, and businesses. We also use it to determine risk to individuals, towns, cities, and whole national economies.

Reviewer: _Risk analysis is the process of analyzing, determining, and defining the risk of danger to government agencies, and businesses. We also use it to determine risk to individuals, towns, cities, and whole national economies._

_Specifically, the analysis looks at potential natural and anthropogenic events. Anthropogenic events are events that human activity causes._ from https://marketbusinessnews.com/financial-glossary/risk-analysis-definition-meaning/

Specifically, the analysis looks at potential natural and anthropogenic events. Anthropogenic events are events that human activity causes.

In IT, we commonly use a risk analysis report to align technological goals with those of the company. IT stands for information technology. Risk analysis is both quantitative or qualitative.

![Process](/files/risk_analysis.jpg)
[Wallstreetmojo.com](https://www.wallstreetmojo.com/risk-analysis/)

## Why You Might Want the Risk Analysis
1. Completion of preventative risk analysis have potential to avoid making huge losses
2. Risk analysis will help the business avoiding security breaches

> 3. New policies can be drafted to prevent potential risks from eventuating

Reviewer: You’ll be able to draft up new policies to prevent potential risks from eventuating. Changing active to passive is not rewriting.  (https://www.spews.org/marketing/why-risk-analysis-is-important/). This comment is regarding all 4 points.

4. Business’ profits can also be increased by performing risk analysis.

## How to Implement the Risk Analysis
**1. Identify Threats**

Identifying the existing and possible threats that can be faced is the very first step in Risk Analysis.And there can be multiple sources that can give rise to these threats, some of them are listed below:

- Human – Illness, death, injury, or other loss of a key individual.
- Operational – Disruption to supplies and operations, loss of access to essential assets, or failures in distribution.
- Reputational – Loss of customer or employee confidence, or damage to market reputation.
- Procedural – Failures of accountability, internal systems, or controls, or from fraud.
- Project – Going over budget, taking too long on key tasks, or experiencing issues with product or service quality.
- Financial – Business failure, stock market fluctuations, interest rate changes, or non-availability of funding.
- Technical – Advances in technology, or from technical failure.
- Natural – Weather, natural disasters, or disease.
- Political – Changes in tax, public opinion, government policy, or foreign influence.

> Various tools can be used to uncover possible threats such as **SWOT Analysis** ,**Failure Mode** and **Effects Analysis** ,while **Scenario Analysis** helps you explore possible future threats.

Reviewer: from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newTMC_07.htm

**2. Estimate Risk**

After identification of threats that can be faced, two factors need to be calculated:
- Likelihood of these threats being realized
- Possible impact of these threats.

> So if we can estimate the exact probability of that event occuring and then multiply that by the factor that will cost us to make the things backwards in right condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if we can estimate the exact probability of that event occurring and then multiply that by the factor that will cost us to make the things backward in the right condition.
```

Things backward in the right condition is ambiguous wording. Do you mean by the Costs of the Event?
